
$Header$


What is this?
------------

This module implements a simple AOLserver database services driver.  A
database driver is a module which interfaces between the AOLserver
database-independent nsdb module and the API of a particular DBMS.  A
database driver's job is to open connections, send SQL statements, and
translate the results into the form used by nsdb.  In this case, the
driver is for the PostgreSQL ORDBMS from The PostgreSQL Global
Development Group.  This is the official driver for the ACS-PG
project. PostgreSQL can be downloaded and installed on most Unix
systems.  To use this driver, you must have PostgreSQL installed on
your system.  For more information on PostgreSQL or to download the
code, open:

        http://www.postgresql.org


How does it work?
----------------

Driver modules look much like ordinary AOLserver modules but are
loaded differently.  Instead of being listed with other modules in the
[ns\server\<server-name>\modules] configuration section, a database
driver is listed in the [ns\db\drivers] section and nsdb does the
loading.  The database driver initialization function normally does
little more than call the nsdb Ns_DbRegisterDriver() function with an
array of pointers to functions.  The functions are then later used by
nsdb to open database connections and send and process queries.  This
architecture is much like ODBC on Windows.  In addition to open,
select, and getrow functions, the driver also provides system catalog
functions and a function for initializing a virtual server.  The
virtual server initialization function is called each time nsdb is
loaded into a virtual server.  In this case, the server initialization
function, Ns_PgServerInit, adds the "ns_pg" Tcl command to the
server's Tcl interpreters which can be used to fetch information about
an active PostgreSQL connection in a Tcl script.

Don Baccus (DRB) added the following improvements in December, 1999:

1. When a handle's returned to the pool and the handle's in
   transaction mode, the driver rolls back the transaction.

2. Reopens crashed backends, retrying query if told to by postmaster.

3. ns_db ntuples now returns the number of tuples affected by "insert",
   "update", and "delete" queries (only worked for select before).

4. Supports the following, assuming you've named your driver "postgres" in
   your .ini file:

   [ns/db/driver/postgres]
   datestyle=iso

   (or any legal Postgres datestyle)

5. The driver's name's been changed from "Postgre95" to "PostgreSQL", the
   current official name of the database software.

   Added reimplementation of ns_column and ns_table commands --
   adapted the code in the ArsDigita Oracle driver to work in the
   PostgreSQL driver's skeleton.  Will revisit this implementation for
   cleanup once functionality fully verified.  Lamar Owen
   <lamar.owen@wgcr.org> Feb 6, 2000.

Merge with AOLserver 3.0rc1's nspostgres.c -- more error checking from
Jan Wieck.

   Also, changed behavior: if the datestyle parameter is not set in config
   file, set it to be 'iso' by default -- it was not getting correctly set.

   Wrapped ACS stuff inside FOR_ACS_USE #ifdef's.

   3-21-2000 lamar.owen@wgcr.org

Contributors to this file include:

	Don Baccus		<dhogaza@pacifier.com>
	Lamar Owen		<lamar.owen@wgcr.org>
	Jan Wieck		<wieck@debis.com>
	Keith Pasket		(SDL/USU)
	Scott Cannon, Jr.	(SDL/USU)

	Original example driver by Jim Davidson
